Okay, so now, let's go ahead and build a Decision Tree.
Our algorithm will be very simple.
Look at the possible splits that each column gives,
calculate the information gain,
and pick the largest one.
So, let's calculate the entropy of the parent, which is this data.
We'll calculate the entropy of the column of the labels.
So there are three Pokemon Go's,
two WhatsApp, and one Snapchat.
The entropy is negative three over six,
logarithm base two of three over six,
minus two over six,
logarithm base two of two over six,
minus one over six,
logarithm base two of one over six.
This gives us 1.46.
Now, if we split them by gender,
we get two sets,
one with one Pokemon Go and two WhatsApp,
and one with one Snapchat and two Pokemon Go.
The entropies for these sets are both 0.92.
Thus, the average entropy of the children of this node is 0.92,
and the information gain is 1.46 minus 0.92,
which is zero point 54.
Now, if we split by occupation,
we get one set of three Pokemon Go's,
and one of two WhatsApps, and one Snapchat.
The first set has entropy zero,
and the other has entropy 0.92.
Therefore, the average of these is 0.46,
and the information gain is 1.46 minus 0.46, which is one.
So to summarize, splitting by the gender column gave us an information gain of 0.54,
and splitting by the occupation column gave us an information gain of one.
The algorithm says, pick the column with
the highest information gain, which is occupation.
So we split by occupation. We'll get two sets.
One is very nice,
since everybody downloaded Pokemon Go,
and in the other one, we can still do better.
We can split based on the gender column.
Since now, we get two very nice sets,
one where everybody downloaded WhatsApp,
and the other one where everybody downloaded Snapchat.
And we're done, here's our Decision Tree.
If we want to do this for
continuous features instead of discrete features, we can still do it.
We'll let you think about the details.
So basically, the idea is to think of all the possible vertical and horizontal cuts,
and seeing which one maximizes the entropy,
and then iterating over and over as we build a Decision Tree.
Here, we can see that our first cut is vertical at the value five.
Our next cut will be a horizontal cut at the height seven.
And our final cut will be horizontal at height two.
And finally, we have our Decision Tree that cuts our data in two.